feat(tracing): Add searchable span properties (#10327)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/concepts/search/searchable-properties/spans.mdx

---
title: Span Properties
description: "Learn more about searchable span properties."
sidebar_order: 21
---

> Spans are the underlying data element captured in Sentry SDKs to build a trace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spans are the underlying data element captured in Sentry SDKs that together make up a trace.
```

> You can search by span properties in the following [sentry.io](https://sentry.io) pages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can search by span properties in the following [Sentry](https://sentry.io) pages:
```

- Traces - when searching for a trace containing spans with matching properties

> When searching on span properties within the **Traces** page, the search will return any trace that contains _one or more spans_ matching the supplied span properties filter.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you search for span properties within the **Traces** page, the search will return any trace that contains _one or more spans_ that match your span properties filter.

```

## Searchable Properties

> Below is a list of keys and tokens that can be used in the span search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a list of keys and tokens that can be used in the span search:
```

<DefinitionList>

### `action`

The type of span action.

- **Type:** string

### `browser.name`

The name of the browser that generated the span.

- **Type:** string

### `cache.hit`

> Whether a cache read has hit or missed the queried cache key. Values are `'true'` or `'false'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether a read cache has hit or missed the queried cache key. Values are `'true'` or `'false'`.
```

- **Type:** string

### `description`

Parameterized and scrubbed description of the span.

- **Type:** string

### `device.class`

> Device class is a synthesized field calculated based off device info found in context such as model (for iOS devices), and device specs like processor_frequency (for Android devices).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Device class is a synthesized field that's calculated by using device info found in context such as model (for iOS devices), and device specs like processor_frequency (for Android devices).
```

- **Type:** string

### `environment`

> Refers to your code deployment naming convention. For example, `development`, `testing`, `staging` and so on. [Learn more](/product/sentry-basics/environments/). In some pages of [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/), you filter on environment using a dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refers to your code deployment naming convention. For example, `development`, `testing`, `staging` and so on. [Learn more](/product/sentry-basics/environments/). In some pages of [Sentry](https://sentry.io/), you filter on environment using a dropdown.
```

- **Type:** string

### `file_extension`

The file extension of a resource span.

- **Type:** string

### `http.decoded_response_content_length`

The [decoded body size](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceResourceTiming/decodedBodySize) of the resource.

- **Type:** string

### `http.response_content_length`

The [encoded body size](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceResourceTiming/encodedBodySize) of the resource.

- **Type:** string

### `http.response_transfer_size`

The [total transfer size](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceResourceTiming/transferSize) of the resource.

- **Type:** string

### `messaging.destination.name`

> The queue name or topic from which the message is consumed from or published to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The queue name or topic from which the message is consumed or published to.
```

Author: @vivianyentran Is there a different way to word this? A message is written or published **to** a queue but read or consumed **from** the queue by the consumer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The queue name or topic that the message is written or published to. The consumer also reads from this queue.
```
How's this?

- **Type:** string

### `messaging.message.id`

The unique ID of a message from the queue or messaging system.

- **Type:** string

### `op`

> Span operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Span operation.
```

- **Type:** string

### `os.name`

> Name of the operating system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Name of the operating system.
```

- **Type:** string

### `platform`

> Name of the platform. This is only a metrics property for [valid platforms](https://github.com/getsentry/relay/blob/9d0d2dc54233d46043a369e1dacf7db900953c14/relay-general/src/protocol/constants.rs#L1-L21), defaulting to `other`.

Reviewer 3: Hmm this seems really brittle since the line numbers & file location of our code could change at any moment, probably worth just dumping the information from that constants file here IMO

Author: Updated to an inline list of supported platforms, and updated the wording to drop "metrics." Made the same change in the events doc as well.

- **Type:** string

### `release`

> A release is a version of your code deployed to an environment. You can create a token with an exact match of the version of a release, or `release:latest` to pick the most recent release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A release is a version of your code deployed to an environment. You can create a token that matches a release exactly, or pick the most recent release by using `release:latest`.
```

- **Type:** string

### `resource.render_blocking_status`

The [render blocking status](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceResourceTiming/renderBlockingStatus) of the resource.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.name`

Name of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.version`

Version of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `status_code`

The HTTP response status code.

- **Type:** string

### `system`

Database system (e.g., `postresql` or `mysql`).

- **Type:** string

### `trace.status`

> The success or failure status of a span's trace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The span trace's success or failure status.
```

- **Type:** string

### `transaction`

Name of the containing transaction.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction.method`

HTTP method of the containing transaction.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction.op`

Operation of the containing transaction.

- **Type:** string

### `user.email`

> An alternative, or addition, to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can therefore display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative or addition to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can therefore display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.
```

- **Type:** string

### `user.id`

Application-specific internal identifier for the user.

- **Type:** string

### `user.username`

> Username, which is typically a better label than the user.id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Username, which is typically a better label than user.id.
```

---
title: Span Properties
description: "Learn more about searchable span properties."
sidebar_order: 21
---

Spans are the underlying data element captured in Sentry SDKs that together make up a trace.

You can search by span properties in the following [Sentry](https://sentry.io) pages:

> - Traces - when searching for a trace containing spans with matching properties

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Traces](/product/explore/traces/) - when searching for a trace containing spans with matching properties
```
Link to the new trace explorer product page

When you search for span properties within the **Traces** page, the search will return any trace that contains _one or more spans_ that match your span properties filter.

## Searchable Properties

Below is a list of keys and tokens that can be used in the span search:

<DefinitionList>

### `action`

The type of span action.

- **Type:** string

### `browser.name`

The name of the browser that generated the span.

- **Type:** string

### `cache.hit`

Whether a cache read has hit or missed the queried cache key. Values are `'true'` or `'false'`.

- **Type:** string

### `description`

Parameterized and scrubbed description of the span.

- **Type:** string

### `device.class`

> Device class is a synthesized field that's calculated by using device info found in context such as model (for iOS devices), and device specs like processor_frequency (for Android devices).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Device class is a synthesized field that's calculated by using device info found in context such as model (for iOS devices), and device specs like `processor_frequency` (for Android devices).
```

### `messaging.message.id`

The unique ID of a message from the queue or messaging system.

- **Type:** string

### `op`

Span operation.

- **Type:** string

### `os.name`

Name of the operating system.

- **Type:** string

### `platform`

Name of the platform. This defaults to `other` and is only a property for platforms from this list:
`as3`, `c`, `cfml`, `cocoa`, `csharp`, `elixir`, `go`, `groovy`, `haskell`, `java`, `javascript`, `native`, `node`, `objc`, `other`, `perl`, `php`, `python`, `ruby`

- **Type:** string

### `release`

A release is a version of your code deployed to an environment. You can create a token that matches a release exactly, or pick the most recent release by using `release:latest`.

- **Type:** string

### `resource.render_blocking_status`

The [render blocking status](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceResourceTiming/renderBlockingStatus) of the resource.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.name`

Name of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `sdk.version`

Version of the Sentry SDK that sent the event.

- **Type:** string

### `status_code`

The HTTP response status code.

- **Type:** string

### `system`

> Database system (e.g., `postresql` or `mysql`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Database system (e.g., `postgresql` or `mysql`).
```
Just double checking here, should it be `postgresql` instead of `postresql`?

- **Type:** string

### `trace.status`

The span trace's success or failure status.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction`

Name of the containing transaction.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction.method`

HTTP method of the containing transaction.

- **Type:** string

### `transaction.op`

Operation of the containing transaction.

- **Type:** string

### `user.email`

An alternative or addition to the username. Sentry is aware of email addresses and can therefore display things such as Gravatars and unlock messaging capabilities.

- **Type:** string

### `user.id`

Application-specific internal identifier for the user.

- **Type:** string

### `user.username`

> Username, which is typically a better label than user.id.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Username, which is typically a better label than `user.id`.
```
